Zoom call with Cenk
2020-10-01 from 10am-noon pacific time

We reviewed all 2day timepoint scans, looking at lesion segmentations relative
to ADC and T2 maps.

Conclusions
===========

ADC and T2 can provide differing contrasts 
* ADC shows fluid exchange due to
massive cellular depolarization, causing fluid, potassium, and sodium to enter
the cell, causing swelling.  These cells are the ones that are least likely to
recover and more truely constitute lesion 
* T2 shows fluid influix due to
vasogenic edema, which follows a different timecourse from ADC.  T2 also shows
the extent that this influx macroscopically diffuses throughout tissue (not
visible in though ADC), so T2 may change in otherwise healthy tissue (or at least tissue able to recover

UIowa did not show as strong contrast as other sites, particularly low contrast
in ADC scans

All sites included cases with lower ADC but not change in T2, thus they were
not included in the segmentation.  We should consider how to address this

A few cases showed change in T2 but not ADC, suggesting that somewhat healthy tissue is included in lesion

JHU scans seemed to pick up lesion in olfactory bulb.  We can consider making
the T2 threshold more conservative to fix this.

Yale's surface coil greatly affect SNR on the ventral surface of the brain, which will bias lesion volumes systematically

Some scans showed signal gradient on the surface where the doppler attachment
would likely be.  While the skull is not broken, this is a traumatic event that
could leave dried blood that could affect signal.  It is likely that our skull
stripping is affected by this signal drop, resulting in clipping away of some brain at the boundary near the drop. 

Some cases have strokes in the posterior cerebral artery.  This can happen when
the filament is not precisely placed to block only the MCA.  It is also
possible in extreme cases for only the PCA to blocked, with the MCA filling by
collateral flow.  The anterior cerebral artery should fill by collateral flow
in most cases.

Lesion location is an important visual cue.  We do not include atlas registration in the pipeline now, but we may consider using a "lesion prior" to exclude regions outside where an MCA stroke would show. 

TODO
====

Email Pat about TTC.  If we can register those images to our MRIs that could
help answer the question about ADC vs T2 disagreements.

Consider ways to address issues above

Share segmentation images with Cenk

Focus on quantative data in the paper!

Summary of cases:

KX0059: bogus anterior lesion
KW9352: bogus contralateral lesion
UI0002: duplicate of MM0200 from UT
QC3810: trauma due to filament? 
MM0204: hippocampal lesion
AM5399: very little lesion contrast on ADC from Iowa
QC3020: example of PCA infarct

QC3023: segmentation includes fluid influx w/o lesion

VH5210: missing cortical ADC lesion (no fluid influx?)
QC3021: missing cortical ADC lesion (no fluid influx?)

QC3899: missing edge of T2 lesion due to signal gradient
AM3691: missing edge of T2 lesion due to signal gradient
VH2039: missing edge of T2 lesion due to signal gradient
QC2312: missing edge of T2 lesion due to signal gradient



Notes
=====

Vasogenic adema 

JHU shows bogus olfactory bulb lesion 

T2 rate is due to water influx adema

T2 and ADC don’t match at iowa

Doppler attachment and possible signal dropout 

Take will have systematically lower lesion volume due to signal drop off of surface coil

Dried blood may affect signal

Ask pat for ttc and cc cenk


